John Venus is someone who's been a
leader in the vegan movement and
advocate for veganism here on YouTube
for many years we find out today that
he's given up on eating a vegan diet
he's given up on the vegan movement
because of misconceptions he still
struggles with about what's natural
necessary and normal to put it in
different words I would say that he's
still really burdened with
misconceptions about what the ethical
implications of evolution are for how
we're living here and now today it's a
deep issue it's a real issue it may be
something you personally struggled with
in the past whoever you are watching the
video may be saying you're struggling
with now but if not I can really
guarantee there are people in your life
whether they're ex vegans non vegans
your grandparents aunts uncles there
will be people who struggle with this
issue it's deep it's difficult to live
with the implications of the simple
truth of this issue and it's not
something that I think we should dismiss
in a kind of shallow catty way as just
being an appeal to nature fallacy a
logical fallacy is an error in logic or
reasoning that makes an argument
unreasonable an appeal to nature fallacy
is used when somebody argues that their
site is correct or good because
something is natural or something is bad
or incorrect because it is unnatural
just because something is natural or
found in nature does not mean it is
justified or good an example of
something natural that is bad is a
hurricane a hurricane is a natural
phenomenon however that does not mean
that they are a good thing discussions
about logical fallacies can sometimes be
useful but very often there are thought
terminating cliche
there are cliche people throw into the
conversation that then stops either
party from really thinking deeply or
seriously about what the topic is it and
this is not something that I as a parent
as a father and comfortable with doing
I'm not comfortable of this missing you
know hundreds of thousands of years or
even millions of years of a certain
you know eating pattern and I am very
familiar with the last 5,000 years of
human history I'm not really all that
familiar with the last say 5 million
years I've never been interested in
archeology and physical anthropology on
that scale but just in the last 5,000
years
you can become profoundly acquainted
with how capricious arbitrary and really
tragic the implications of evolution are
for our species to give one very simple
but really moving example iodine
deficiency
it-it-it it causes Gorder of course but
it also causes cretinism in extreme
cases and also it shaves off between 10
to 15 IQ points from people who when in
the first trimester of pregnancy when
they don't get enough iodine from their
mother's bodies today in the year 2020
we think about iodine deficiency assume
that happens in exotic and far-off parts
of the world you may think of Mongolia
you may think of landlocked parts of
Africa you may think of Pakistan all
right people are born mentally [ __ ]
and live their whole lives with a
cognitive deficiency because of iodine
deficiency how is it possible for our
species to be so poorly evolved how is
it possible for it to be natural and
normal for this species of bipedal ape
running around in the forests of North
Africa to be reliant on seaweed to be
reliant on pregnant mothers eating
seaweed during pregnancy just to prevent
their children from being born mentally
inadequate in some extreme cases people
are left with cretinism more commonly
they have these 10 to 15 points shaved
off their IQ and that is Eirik
coverable for the rest of their lives
that will be lost about a third of
people in the developing world don't get
enough iodine and you know 50 years from
now 60 years from now those people as
adults will have their capability
impaired because we are not iodized Amir
salt today or providing iodine in in
other forms we have an evolved
dependency on iodine that's irrational
and arbitrary and unfair and tragic and
within recorded history
it was a problem on a vast scale within
Europe to white wealthy people in Europe
were born and raised
iodine deficient on a massive scale and
medical scientists kind of even in the
medieval and renaissance era were
struggling with this they didn't
understand why it was why was it in
these landlocked area there were
seemingly whole villages of people born
mentally incapacitated where the level
of intelligence was so much lower than
people living on the coast and nobody
knew why and nobody knew what to do
about it
and in fact the earliest time that this
was actually noticed was in Switzerland
inland where there were these villages
of Cretans where there were these
villages where nobody got in a fight and
everybody was running around you know
with substantially [ __ ] and these
days in some parts of the world you do
still come across these same kinds of
villages in China a couple of times
inland in Gansu Province and Ningxia I
came across what they call chigorin
which is precisely a village of dunces
and it is eerie to come across a village
where everybody is substantially
[ __ ] because they don't get iodine
how is it possible it's possible because
on a really deep level nature is not
some benevolent god or goddess that is
set down for us an ideal for how we
ought to live our lives nature did not
create this world to be our playground
and did not create us to be a perfect
plaything in that garden if you like
alright Nature has been cruel capricious
arbitrary indifferent in many ways
nature put us into a situation where we
couldn't win that's even just looking at
the last 5,000 years not going back
millions of years of unbelievable
suffering so a guy like John Venus who
has many advantages in life he's a very
good-looking man
he has his whole career basically he has
just gotten by on his looks he doesn't
have that kind of historical knowledge
he doesn't have that depth of
understanding of human history let alone
the way evolution and nature in every
sense of the world has interface with
human history in the south of news a guy
like John Venus looks at the world with
a really deep assumption that whatever
is natural must be necessary and fair
and intended for our best intended for
our benefit and that's the exact
opposite of the truth if you could
really just think through and deal with
this one example of course there are
hundreds of examples of how unfair it is
that human beings should be born needing
iodine and needing their pregnant
mothers to eat enough iodine during the
pregnancy just that we cannot be
mentally handicapped for wholly just
really let that sink in and think about
how unfair that is for a species that
evolved in land Locke North Africa yes
eating you know of animals that resemble
deer for like a quarter but we did have
a meat-eating diet so it's over just how
just what a ridiculous struggle we were
put into that well without even thinking
through how unfair it is that you know
there's this parasite called malaria
that all the terrible things we had to
endure over a time scale of of millions
of years then you have to accept also
that you're not going to find in that
evolutionary record you're not gonna
find in the examination of nature and
ideal for what we ought to do how we
ought to live our lives now
all right so John Venus has given up on
ethical veganism because he resigned
himself to this notion that meat-eating
is something natural and normal and
necessary because of this evolutionary
record because of what he what what he
thinks of nature what nature means to
him here and now in our lives I am old
enough at 41 that I met and knew people
who lived through the Nanci period and
those people are not cartoon characters
to me you know they're not like
caricatures of good or evil most of the
people who actually lived through that
period had all kinds of mixed and
contradictory feelings about the Nazis
as they rose and fell and they worked
with propaganda and very imperfect
sources information I had one friend and
his grandparents laughed they did Ulf
Hitler they thought Hitler was a
complete joke kind of right up to the
11th hour right up to when the news was
coming out about how many millions
people were dying and I can understand
why still today if you actually read
what Hitler wrote it's laughable it's
ridiculous and these grandparents of his
would stay up at night I'd have to
calculate the time zone difference I
believe it was on shortwave radio maybe
remember but on radio one way or another
in Canada they would get broadcasts of
the lectures Hitler was giving at that
time to these big crowds in German and
they would laugh and laugh it was just
so ridiculous one crazy crackpot
conspiracy theory after another you know
blaming the Freemasons and saying this
is a conspiracy and that it was just so
ridiculous that a leader in mainstream
politics was speaking you know in this
way that from their perspective would
not even be respectable if it were some
crackpot at the local pub they laughed
and laughed and then of course you can
imagine after a certain point they had
to look back and
regret their laughter all right a lot of
other people made the wrong call one way
or another the Prime Minister of Canada
it's on the record as an historical fact
that he was a supporter of Adolf Hitler
you know he was the democratically
elected Prime Minister of Canada and
then ended up fighting against Hitler
and so on it's ridiculous there were all
kinds of people who wanted to think the
best or misinterpreted what the signs
were and later had to look back with
regret that they were wrong you know
what you don't hear much about you don't
hear from people who initially supported
Hitler and then found out the terrible
truth and opposed Hitler and then
decided later to go back to supporting
Hitler anyway that you don't hear about
that would take a remarkably evil
character not just to initially support
Hitler out of ignorance but then to
learn the terrible truth oppose it say
morally this is bad and wrong and evil
and then to change your mind and decide
that it's natural normal and necessary
or even good the moral gap between
vegans and ax vegans is much deeper much
wider and much more invidious than the
gap between vegans and people have
simply eaten meat all their lives that's
not that big a deal like the gap between
me as a vegan and someone who's just
never thought about it that's like the
gap between someone who knows how
terrible Hitler is during World War two
and someone is just living in ignorance
somebody doesn't know any of the facts
they only vaguely hear something on the
news once in awhile they don't really
know what's up right but when you
encounter someone who has consciously
and intentionally made the moral
compromise that John Venus has made not
at if ignorant knowing full well the
ethical and ecological car Mises you are
dealing with someone worse than a Nazi
worse than a neo-nazi someone who became
a committed and ethical opponent of the
Nazis but who later
change their mind
[Music]